Transcode compiles even if you do not have all additional libs
installed. You do not *need* to have a "yes" on every configure check.
Transcode comes with some of the libraries included. That is libmpeg2
for decoding MPEG-2 files, libdvdread for reading DVDs, a library to
read AVI files.

You will need to have libavcodec (also known as ffmpeg libraries)
installed somewhere on your computer. Without libavcodec transcode
doesn't compile. The best way to accomplish this is to get ffmpeg from
cvs (www.ffmpeg.org), configure it with at least --enable-shared,
compile and install it. A package of some kind that includes
libavcodec.so and the headers will do as well. If the files are
installed in a non-default location (transcode assumes prefix: /usr),
then you will need to tell transcode where they live. Very important:
you _need_ both the header files _and_ libavcodec.so files. The
libavcodec.a file won't do!

It is recommended, that you have a recent nasm installed (>=0.98.35) if
you are on an x86 based platform. A recent version of lame is a good
thing to have installed, too. Depending on what you want to do with
transcode you may need additional packages installed.

Now do "./configure --help" to find out which packages transcode can use
(see the --enable-$$$ and --with-$$$ flags). ONLY PACKAGES THAT ARE
ENABLED EXPLICITLY USING CONFIGURE ARE ACTUALLY USED TO BUILD MODULES.

If you have any optimisations your C compiler supports and you want to
use, put them in the environment variable CFLAGS. Recommended for
newbies: export CFLAGS="-O3". It pays off to study all the optimisation
flags your C compiler offers and hand them to transcode. For instance,
add "-march=pentium4" if you're going to run transcode on pentium 4.

If you're using gcc and get errors about "can't find a register in class
`GENERAL_REGS'" add -fomit-frame-pointer to CFLAGS.

The file tcconfig has some example (!) optimisations you might want to use.

Then do "./configure" with all the relevant --enable-$$$ and --with-$$$
options.

make; make install

If your libraries/packages are not installed in standard places, use the
respective --with-$$$-includes and --with-$$$-libs options, where $$$ is
the package name.

Configure options for transcode

For the options described below, the default value is in parenthesis
after the option.

Configure will not test for a package unless support is enabled. For
example, configure will not look for SDL unless the option
'--enable-sdl' is used. If a package distributes pkg-config information,
or if a package distributes it's own -config script (like libquicktime's
lqt-config), configure will use information from pkg-config or the
package's script to find the package's includes and libraries.
Otherwise, configure will look for each package's includes in
/usr/include and each package's libraries in /usr/lib. The options
dealing with file locations, such as '--with-a52-libs' can optionally be
used to tell configure to look in other locations for includes and
libraries. If these options are used, configure will use the paths given
with those options, and will not use paths from pkg-config or a
package's -config script. If configure is unable to find support for a
mandatory or optionally enabled package, configure will terminate with
an error and display a message about the error.

General options:

  --enable-statbuffer (enabled)
      enable internal static framebuffer support
  --enable-netstream (disabled)
      enable network streaming support
  --enable-xio (disabled)
      link to the xio library
  --enable-warnings-as-errors (disabled)
      treat warnings as errors
  --with-x (with)
      use the X Window System
  --with-default-xvid=<default xvid> (xvid4)
      Default xvid version.  Valid options: xvid2, xvid3, xvid4
  --with-mod-path (${prefix}/lib/transcode)
      directory where export/import modules are installed

Mandatory packages:

  libz
  libm
    (these generally come with any and all OSes)

  FFmpeg (libavcodec) >= 0.9.1pre1  http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --with-ffmpeg-libs-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where ffmpeg libs includes are installed
      --with-ffmpeg-libs-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where ffmpeg libs libraries files are installed
      --enable-ffmpeg-libs-static (disabled)
          link binaries and modules statically to ffmpeg-libs
        WARNING: creates huge binaries
        WARNING: only tested on linux x86

OS dependent packages:

  v4l
    related options:
      --enable-v4l (disabled)
          if enabled, builds v4l and v4l2 modules, which imports video
          from video capture hardware on Linux using the Video4Linux(2)
          API.
            please note: use import_v4l2 if possible; v4l is depricated.
    affected modues: import_v4l.so import_v4l2.so

  bktr
    related options:
      --enable-bktr (disabled)
          if enabled, builds bktr inport module, which imports video
          from video capture hardware on *BSD using the bktr(4)
          API.
    affected modues: import_bktr.so

  sunau
    related options:
      --enable-sunau (disabled)
          if enabled, builds sunau import modules, which imports raw PCM
          audio from hardware on *BSD using the audio(4) API.
    affected modues: import_sunau.so

Optional packages:

  FreeType2  http://freetype.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-freetype2 (enabled)
          if enabled, add FreeType2 support, which is used to render
          text
      --with-ft-prefix=PFX ()
          Prefix where FreeType is installed
      --with-ft-exec-prefix=PFX ()
          Exec prefix where FreeType is installed
      --disable-freetypetest (enabled)
          Do not try to compile and run a test FreeType program
    affected modules: filter_text.so, filter_subtitler.so

  liba52  http://liba52.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-a52 (disabled)
          if enabled, builds liba52 audio decoder module
      --with-a52-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local liba52 is installed
      --with-a52-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local liba52 includes are installed
      --with-a52-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local liba52 libs are installed
      --enable-a52-default-decoder (disabled)
          if enabled, and --enable-a52 is also enabled, uses liba52 as
          default audio decoder, otherwise, libac3 is used as the
          default audio decoder
    affected modules: a52_decore.so

  mjpegtools  http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net
    related options:
      --enable-mjpegtools (disabled)
          if enabled, builds mjpegtools dependent plugins
      --with-mjpegtools-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local mjpegtools is installed
      --with-mjpegtools-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local mjpegtools includes are installed
      --with-mjpegtools-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local mjpegtools libs are installed
    affected modules: export_yuv4mpeg.so, export_mpeg2enc.so,
      export_mp2enc.so

  SDL  http://www.libsdl.org/
    related options:
      --enable-sdl (disabled)
          if enabled, adds support for graphical display via SDL
      --with-sdl-prefix=PFX ()
          Prefix where SDL is installed
      --with-sdl-exec-prefix=PFX ()
          Exec prefix where SDL is installed
      --disable-sdltest (enabled)
          Do not try to compile and run a test SDL program
    affected modules: filter_preview.so

  libfame  http://fame.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-libfame (disabled)
          if enabled, build libfame dependent module
      --with-libfame-prefix=PFX ()
          Prefix where libfame is installed
      --with-libfame-exec-prefix=PFX ()
          Exec prefix where libfame is installed
      --disable-libfametest (enabled)
          Do not try to compile and run a test libfame program
    affected modules: export_fame.so

  lame  http://www.mp3dev.org/
    related options:
      --enable-lame (enabled)
          if enabled, transcode will use libmp3lame for
          encoding MPEG audio layer III
      --with-lame-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local lame is installed
      --with-lame-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local lame includes are installed
      --with-lame-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local lame libs are installed
    affected modules: export_af6.so, export_dv.so, export_raw.so,
      export_divx4.so, export_divx4raw.so, export_divx5.so,
      export_divx5raw.so, export_debugppm.so, export_ppm.so,
      export_ffmpeg.so, export_lame.so, export_pvn.so,
      export_yuv4mpeg.so, export_mpeg2enc.so, export_mp2enc.so,
      export_mjpeg.so, export_xvid2.so, export_xvid3.so,
      export_xvid4.so, import_mp3.so

  avifile  http://avifile.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-avifile (disabled)
          build avifile dependent modules
      --with-avifile-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local avifile is installed
      --with-avifile-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local avifile includes are installed
      --with-avifile-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local avifile libs are installed
    affected modules: export_af6.so, af6_decore.so

  ogg  http://www.xiph.org/ogg/
    related options:
      --enable-ogg (disabled)
          if enabled, adds support for importing OGG audio
      --with-ogg-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local ogg is installed
      --with-ogg-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local ogg includes are installed
      --with-ogg-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local ogg libs are installed
    affect modules: none

  vorbis  http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis/
    related options:
      --enable-vorbis (disabled)
          if enabled, adds support for importing Vorbis audio
      --with-vorbis-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local vorbis is installed
      --with-vorbis-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local vorbis includes are installed
      --with-vorbis-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local vorbis libs are installed
      affected modules: none

  theora  http://www.theora.org/
    related options:
      --enable-theora (disabled)
          if enabled, adds support for importing theora audio
      --with-theora-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local theora is installed
      --with-theora-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local theora includes are installed
      --with-theora-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local theora libs are installed
      affected modules:

  libdvdread  http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/groups/dvd/
    related options:
      --enable-libdvdread (enabled)
          if enabled, adds support for reading DVDs
      --with-libdvdread-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local dvdread is installed
      --with-libdvdread-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local dvdread includes are installed
      --with-libdvdread-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local dvdread lib is installed
    affected modules: import_dvd.so

  libmpeg3  http://heroinewarrior.com/libmpeg3.php3
    related options:
      --enable-libmpeg3 (disabled)
          if enabled, builds libmpeg3 dependent module
      --with-libmpeg3-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local libmpeg3 is installed
      --with-libmpeg3-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local libmpeg3 includes are installed
      --with-libmpeg3-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local libmpeg3 libs are installed
    affected modules: import_mpeg3.so

  liblve >= 040322  http://lvempeg.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-liblve (disabled)
          if enabled, build liblve dependent module
      --with-liblve-builddir=PFX ()
          path to lve builddir
    affected modules: import_lve.so

  PVM3  http://www.netlib.org/pvm3/
    related options:
      --enable-pvm3 (disabled)
          if enabled, build and use pvm3 code
      --with-pvm3-lib=PFX ()
          prefix where local pvm3 libraries are installed
      --with-pvm3-include=PFX ()
          prefix where local pvm3 includes are installed
    affected modules: export_pvm.so

  libdv  http://libdv.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-libdv (disabled)
          if enabled, build libdv dependent modules
      --with-libdv-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local libdv is installed
      --with-libdv-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local libdv includes are installed
      --with-libdv-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local libdv libs are installed
    affected modules: export_dvraw.so, export_dv.so

  libquicktime  http://libquicktime.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-libquicktime (disabled)
          if enabled, build libquicktime dependent modules
      --with-libquicktime-prefix=PFX ()
          prefix where local libquicktime is installed
      --with-libquicktime-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local libquicktime includes are installed
      --with-libquicktime-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local libquicktime libs are installed
    affected modules: export_mov.so, import_mov.so

  lzo  http://www.oberhumer.com/opensource/lzo/
    related options:
      --enable-lzo (disabled)
          if enabled, build liblzo dependent modules
      --with-lzo-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local lzo is installed
      --with-lzo-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local lzo includes are installed
      --with-lzo-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local lzo libs are installed
    affected modules: export_lzo.so, import_lzo.so

  libxml2  http://xmlsoft.org/
    related options:
      --enable-libxml2 (disabled)
          if enabled, add libxml2 support
      --with-libxml2-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local libxml2 is installed
      --with-libxml2-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local libxml2 includes are installed
      --with-libxml2-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local libxml2 libs are installed
    affected modules: import_xml.so

  gtk  http://www.gtk.org/
    related options:
      --enable-gtk (disabled)
          if enabled, adds support for graphical display via gtk
    affected modules: filter_preview.so

  ImageMagick http://www.imagemagick.com/
    related options:
      --enable-imagemagick (disabled)
          if enabled, build ImageMagick dependent modules
      --with-imagemagick-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local imagemagick is installed
      --with-imagemagick-includes=PFX ()
          prefix where local imagemagick includes are installed
      --with-imagemagick-libs=PFX ()
          prefix where local imagemagick libs are installed
    affected modules: export_im.so, import_im.so, import_imlist.so,
      filter_logo.so, filter_logoaway.so, filter_compare.so

  libjpeg  http://www.ijg.org/
    related options:
      --enable-libjpeg (enabled)
          if enabled, build libjpeg dependent modules
    affected modules: export_mjpeg.so, export_jpg.so

  FFMpeg (executable)  http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net/
    related options:
      --enable-ffbin (disabled)
          if enabled, build FFmpeg binary module
    affected modules: import_ffbin.so

  LoRS/IBP  http://loci.cs.utk.edu/
    related options:
      --enable-ibp (disabled)
          if enabled, build ibp support
      --with-libfdr=DIR ()
          base directory for libfdr
      --with-libibp=DIR ()
          base directory for libibp
      --with-libexnode=DIR ()
          base directory for libexnode
      --with-liblbone=DIR ()
          base directory for liblbone
      --with-libend2end=DIR ()
          base directory for libend2end
      --with-liblors=DIR ()
          base directory for liblors
    affected modules: none
