.TH avimerge 1 "06th January 2004" "avimerge(1)"
.SH NAME
avimerge \- merge several AVI-files into one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B avimerge
.B -o
.I name
.B -i
.IB file " ..."
[
.B -p
.IB file
] [
.B -a
.I num
] [
.B -A
.I num
] [
.B -b
.I num
] [
.B -f
.I commentfile
] [
.B -x
.I indexfile
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBavimerge\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Östreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B avimerge
merges several AVI-files into one. Can also be used to fix an index of a broken
file and can also replace audio tracks or muxes new ones. It can read raw AC3
and MP3 files for multplexing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the output file.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfile\fP
Specify the name(s) of the input file(s) to merge into the output
file.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIfile\fP
Specify the name of the audio file to multiplex into the output file. The type
of file can be either another AVI file or an MP3 or AC3 file.
.TP
\fB-b\fP \fInum\fP
Specify if avimerge should write an VBR mp3 header into the AVI file. Default
is dependent on the input file (and usually correct). \fInum\fP is either 1 or
0.
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIcommentfile\fP
Read AVI tombstone data for header comments from \fIcommentfile\fP. See
/docs/avi_comments.txt for a sample.
.TP
\fB-x\fP \fIindexfile\fP
Read the AVI index from \fIindexfile\fP. See aviindex(1) for information on how
to create such a file.
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fInum\fP
Specify the number of the audio track you want to use from the
.I input
file.
.TP
\fB-A\fP \fInum\fP
Specify the number of the audio track you want to use in the
.I output
file. If you specify an existing track number, the track will be replaced. If
omitted, the next free slot will be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command

.nf
.B avimerge -o big.avi -i my_file1.avi my_file2.avi my_file3.avi
.fi

merges the three input files \fImy_file[123].avi\fP into one big AVI-file
\fIbig.avi\fP.

.nf
.B avimerge -o out.avi -i in.avi -p audio2.avi -a 1
.fi

merges track number 1 form in.avi to the next free track number in out.avi. You can
create audio-only AVI-files using

.nf
.B  transcode -i song.mp3 -x null,mp3 -g 0x0 -y raw -a 1 -o audio2.avi -u 50
.fi

The command

.nf
.B avimerge -o out.avi -i in.avi -p sound.mp3
.fi

merges the file sound.mp3 as an additional audio track into out.avi.

.SH AUTHORS
.B avimerge
was written by Thomas Östreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aviindex (1),
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
