.TH avisplit 1 "16th January 2002" "avisplit(1)"
.SH NAME
avisplit \- split AVI-files into chunks of a maximum size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B avisplit
[
.B -i
.I file
.B -o
.I base
[
.B -s
.I size
] [
.B -H
.I num
] [
.B -t
.I s1-s2[,s3-s4,..]
.B -c
.B -m
]
] [
.B -v
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBavisplit\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Östreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B avisplit
splits a single AVI-file into chunks of size \fIsize\fP.
.br
Each of the created chunks will be an independent file, i.e. it can
be played without needing any other of the chunks. ???
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfile\fP
Specify the filename of the file to split into chunks.
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIbase\fP
Specify the base of the output filename(s) \fBavisplit\fP will then split to
\fBbase-%04d.avi\fP
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIsize\fP
Use this option to specify the maximum size (in units of MB) of the
chunks \fBavisplit\fP should create. \fI0\fP means dechunk, create as many
files as possible.
.TP
\fB-H\fP \fInum\fP
Create only the first \fInum\fP chunks then exit.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fIs1-s2[,s3-s4,..]\fP
Split the input file based on time/framecode (hh:mm:ss.ms)
.TP
.B -c
Together with \fB-t\fP. Merge all segments into one AVI-File again instead 
generating seperate files.
.TP
.B -m
Together with \fB-t\fP. Force split at upper bondary instead of lower border.
.TP
.B -v
Print only version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B avisplit -s 700 -i my_file.avi
.PP
will split the file \fImy_file.avi\fP into chunks which's maximum size
will not exceed 700 MB, i.e. they will fit onto a CD, each.  The
created chunks will be named my_file.avi-0000, my_file.avi-0001, etc.
.PP
.B avisplit -i my_file.avi -c -o out.avi -t 00:10:00-00:11:00,00:13:00-00:14:00
.PP
will grab Minutes 10 to 11 and 13 to 14 from my_file.avi and merge it into out.avi
.SH AUTHORS
.B avisplit
was written by Thomas Östreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
