.TH avisync 1 "16th January 2002" "avisync(1)"
.SH NAME
avisync \- adjust audio synchronisation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B avisync
[
.B -o
.I file
.B -i
.IB file
.B -q
.B -n
.IB num
.B -a
.I num
.B -N
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBavisync\fP is Copyright (C) by Thomas Östreich.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B avisync
shift audio on frame basis.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-o\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the output file.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfile\fP
Specify the name of the input file.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
be less verbose.
.TP
\fB-N\fP
Don't repeat the audio when shifting. Using this option fires up a transcode
and generates a muted mp3 frame which will be inserted.
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIcount\fP
shift audio by \fIcount\fP frames. If \fIcount\fP is positive, audio 
starts with audio frame \fIcount\fP at the beginning of the AVI-file. If
\fIcount\fP is negative, audio is prepended \fIcount\fP padding frames.
.TP
\fB-a\fP \fInum\fP
Specify the number of the audio channel to shift.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B avisync -i my_file1.avi -o out.avi -n -10
.PP
puts 10 audio frames at the beginning of the AVI-file.
.PP
E.g. if the audio is delayed about 200 ms (0.2 seconds) and you're working with
a 25 frames per second AVI-File, you need to shift the audio 200/40 = 5 frames 
since one frame is 40 ms long.
.SH AUTHORS
.B avisync
was written by Thomas Östreich
.br
<ostreich@theorie.physik.uni-goettingen.de> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avifix (1),
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
