.TH tcmodinfo 1 "21th January 2003" "tcmodinfo(1)"
.SH NAME
tcmodinfo \- Get and Set information in filter modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B tcmodinfo
[
.B -i
.I name
] [
.B -m
.I path
] [
.B -s
.I socket
] [
.B -p
] [
.B -v
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
\fBtcmodinfo\fP is Copyright (C) by Tilmann Bitterberg
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tcmodinfo
Loads a supplied transcode(1) filtermodule and prints its parameters. It can
also connect to transcode through a socket to do runtime configuration of
transcode and its filters. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIname\fP
Specify the name of the filter. \fIName\fP is specified without the prefix
.B filter_
and without the suffix
.B \.so
So if you want information about filter_smooth.so, just supply
.B smooth
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fIPath\fP
Look in \fIPath\fP instead of the compiled-in module path for a module.
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIsocket\fP
Connect to socket \fIsocket\fP. You can use this socket to do runtime
configuration of transcode. For all the boring details about the socket
protocol have a look at /docs/filter\-socket.txt. transcode has to be started
with the \fB\-\-socket\fP option to open the socket.
.TP
.B -p
Print the compiled-in module path and exit.
.TP
.B -v
Print version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-i smooth
.PP
prints information about the smooth filter.
.PP
.B transcode \-\-socket /tmp/tc\-socket &
.br
.B echo help | tcmodinfo \-s /tmp/tc\-socket
.PP
prints the socket help text and exits.
.PP
.B tcmodinfo \-s /tmp/tc\-socket
.PP
Will drop you into an interactive "shell" where you can talk to the socket.
.SH AUTHORS
.B tcmodinfo
was written by Tilmann Bitterberg
.br
<transcode@tibit.org> with contributions from
many others.  See AUTHORS for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR avimerge (1),
.BR avisplit (1),
.BR tccat (1),
.BR tcdecode (1),
.BR tcdemux (1),
.BR tcextract (1),
.BR tcprobe (1),
.BR tcscan (1),
.BR transcode (1)
